Hello everyone and welcome to the solution for the third coding a trivia question says quick review
you're given an array of historical stock prices per day and you need to write an algorithm that figures
out what days that is the index of the array.
You could buy and sell the stock for maximum profit.
Now you're only allowed to buy the stock once and sell at once and you also not short the stock.
So if you're given this example you would buy on day three for a price of two so day for her price at
10 getting you an $8 gain.
We're going to start off by coating a base solution and then move on to fix some possible edge cases.
Let's first off discuss strategy.
So something to think about right off the bat that's really tempting to do is just find the maximum
price in theory and the minimum price in the array.
Subtract the two and you get your profit.
However this won't work always because the max price could come before the minimum price.
The brute force method would be to try every single possible pair of price combinations but that would
also be bad because you're algorithmically very inefficient.
It's called the Order of squared.
Because if you have an items in the array you're going to have to do squared comparisons.
In an interview setting you should try to already know that's not going to be the good solution.
There's a smarter way of doing it.
So in this case we're going to use what's called a greedy algorithm approach because we're going to
iterate through the list of stock prices while keeping track of our maximum profit.
That means for every price we're going to keep track of the lowest price so far and then check if we
can get a better profit than our current max profit.
Let's get started and coat this out.
All right let's start off by creating our profit function.
It's going to take in the stock prices.
Will say so make sure you spell this right.
Stock underscore prices.
And then what we're going to do here is say our minimum stock price is the smallest price we've seen
so far in the array.
Well we can start off is going to be the first price so say stock prices of 0 is our minimum stock price
and then our maximum profit in the very beginning is also just going to be actually zero.
So we start off.
Profit is zero.
We're going to iterate through the array so we can say for price in stock prices we'll check the set
and we'll do minimum stock prices and then we'll check to set the lowest stock price so far.
So say minimum between the minimum stock price and the price and let's make sure that says minimum stock
price we don't get an error later.
So what we're doing here is we're going along everything in the price array and saying what's the minimum
stock price.
Is it the current minimum price I have or the price I'm currently on.
So that's going to allow us to check the lowest stock price.
Then we're going to do is say a comparison profit here.
So say a comparison profit is equal to the price minus the minimum stock price.
So that's going to check the current price minus the minimum stock price that we've seen so far and
that's going to be our comparison profit and we're going to compare that to our current max profit which
starts off as 0 but eventually becomes some other number as we get more and more comparison profits.
So say a max profit versus the comparison profit.
And then if after all that we're going to return max profit.
So let's walk through what we're doing here.
We're setting the minimum stock price that we've seen so far as the very first stock price.
So far we have zero profit.
But as we go along with every price the stock prices array we grab the minimum stock price and say OK
what's my minimum stock price so far.
Is it the minimum stock price that is in the very beginning the first element or the price I'm currently
on.
So we constantly keep track of them and the stock price has seen that we do a comparison profit.
So we do the price that we're currently on minus the minimum stock price and then we compare if that
profit is better than the max profit that we've seen so far using the max function.
And after you go through the entire array you'll have the max profit to return out.
All right.
So let's go ahead and test this out.
Will say profit of say to 10 and 12.
We run that and it says the max profit possible was 10.
Which makes sense because you would buy on the first day at $2.
So on the last day at $12 giving you a profit of 10.
So it actually doesn't matter what this price here in the middle is.
So let's go ahead in well as long as it is less than $10 so we can say profits still 10.
Let's go ahead and do another quick example make sure if things is working we'll do something like 1
jump up to 20 and then crashed back down to let's say 5.
So when you run that your max profit is between going to one to 20 for $9000 profit.
So some of the edge cases we may want to consider that your interviewer may ask you to consider is what
if your stock prices only has less than two prices.
So we are going to get an error if we run this on that.
So let's see what happens if we just say one in five here actually if we just say one.
So if it's less than 2 if we just say one year end up getting zero which kind of doesn't really make
sense but it also doesn't really make sense to pass that here.
So instead all we can do is just say hey if the length of stock prices is Leston to go ahead and prints
go ahead or just return something and say return hey I need more prices or whatever you want.
So this is the sort of thinking that interview was really like.
So when you consider edge cases it makes it aware that you're thinking of other possibilities that the
problem may encounter.
OK.
Hope that was hope for you and I'll see at the next lecture.